---
date: 2024-04-09
tags:
  - essay
topics:
  - "[[Philosophy]]"
themes:
  - "[[Human condition]]"
complete: true
---

Summary::
It is well established and an ultimate truism that an inherent duality of our world is the existence of suffering and its counterparts desire and pleasure. I've spoken about ensuring these sufferings in order to greater exaggerate the experience of the positives life offers. However I've not provided reason for even enduring this suffering? Is the better good worth the harder suffering (suffering without any aids or numbing mechanisms). My answer simply is yes. 

Suffering without the numbing agents of social media, vapes, TV and other modes of instant gratification is undoubtedly more difficult than the suffering wrought with instant pleasures. It often calls the question to the mind, especially in the midst of suffering or anguish, why endure this? Why endure to this difficulty? Well, you'll notice that after exposing oneself to a certain type of difficulty, like exercise for example, that activity will reduce in difficulty over time. Moreover, that difficulty will be easier to bear and the benefits wrought from it will become so apparent that the pain you suffer seems hardly worth mention. It is an unfortunate misconception of our minds which are subject to the context of time that we confuse unpleasant feelings with a neverending experience. When in reality, we know that nothing (not even unpleasantness) can last forever. It is the one constant in this reality that nothing has or ever will stay the same. Everything is in flux on a spectrum of its own. With this in mind, the better question to ask yourself is: "is this suffering one that I can come out the otherside of?" The answer will always be yes. Any answer in the negative is one that your mortal mind will not have to be troubled by because you will be dead. Leave it to a freer soul... or oblivion. Pick your poison.

Although, this is easier said than done. To make things easier to bear it can help to know the reasoning for why you're doing what you're doing. Question yourself and ask what outcome you are seeking. Why do you want this outcome? If this outcome can withstand even your own questioning and scrutiny, then you know it is an action worth pursuing. It can be easier to take satisfaction in a necessary suffering to know that it is one that is necessary. With the introduction of a Nihilistic society, which is governed by laws, this attract a sociological environment. An often overlooked (at least by me) effect of living this way is you begin to develop this misconception that motivation does not really affect action. As long as you do and say all the right things, you'll be fine. You can believe that if you like and continue to live the way you live. Alternatively, you can live a life governed by reason. Have as a constant mantra that you should not be doing a task unless it is furthering an outcome you can enjoy in the future. It's like leaving yourself little presents of goodness: "oh I forgot I ironed all my shirts, that's going to save me 15 minutes today. I'm going to enjoy that by watching a tutorial on javascript". This is an example train of events I may set up for myself. That is not to say you cannot relax either, just change slightly what that means for you.

One of the best reasons to be grateful to suffering and it's absurdity is that without it, we'd be quite bored. Arguably one of the worst sufferings is one of an understimulated existence. One that does not challenge, provoke or do anything of any importance. Many people live this way already and it's perhaps the cause of this epidemic depression (although I'm not reprimanding those with bona fide conditions). I'd like to call to action those who feel the all too shared experience of: "is this really it?". Those who share this feeling are also the ones who shrink away from the daunting and the intimidating. Living quiet with lives hugging the walls. This is no way to achieve true contentment. True contentment is unburdened by the similarities between the constant grarification and the meek unpleasantness only cowards allow in. It allows in the full spectrum of greatness and unpleasantness. Bringing out the colours of each as a painter would in intersecting patterns, or a director in juxtapositioning his subtext. The more you allow discomfort in, the greater the pleasantries you are able to experience. Whether this is a true overarching balancing act of the universe or not, there is no dispute in the perspective shift. I challenge you to experience it fully.

You can't always have things easy, but you certainly can have things easier most of the time. If you're constantly in your present working towards having an easier future, you'll be constantly eased. For example, going to the gym in the morning is hard. But, if you get your clothes ready the night before, go to bed early and don't use your phone before bed you can make it a lot easier. This is another benefit of constantly working towards a better future by doing the right thing now

I have noticed particularly that there resides two minds within us. A mind which is governed by reason and logic and one which is governed by desire. It's not often but not impossible for the thoughts and intent to be one and the same. Without careful deliberations and introspection it can be difficult to ascertain which holds the microphone of your monologue. However, it is important in living a life of reasoning (which brings forth more gifts than one of desire). Why would you not want to follow the reasoning of the mind governed by desire? Because it lacks the foundation to base any of its reasons. All of its reasons end in "because I want it" as it's justification. It seduces its host by granting euphoria upon satisfying it. However, as with all things that lack foundation, it quickly falls apart. You may make inspection as to why, and you're desire governed mind will have no response, no reasoning, no advise or tutelage. So then why life governed by a reasoning mind? All your decisions will be informed by the context, circumstances and best outcome in your life. Living a life this way will not absolve any pain or suffering. As said before, that's an inherint aspect of existence. But, the sting of this suffering will be lessened in the knowledge that everything has been done within your power to make it a world in which you are conscious. As has been contemplated by many philosophers of past, satisfaction of desire is but a shadow of joy. Joy is cultivated only with contentment with the minimal and the acceptance of no greener grass. 

I finally figured out why society is the way it is (at least i suspect). The things we surround ourselves with now are all instant gratifications. We've been conditioned that life is uninhabitable unless we consume or satisfy desires. This is not to say you should not live with any material things or instant gratifications sometimes. I'm saying, try a lesser appetite. It's saying that when you learn the only way you're having a good time is when you're in front of a screen, drinking or smoking you begin thinking any inconveniences and discomforts are unbearable. It's a disease which has been normalised in society everywhere. All social gatherings you're drinking, smoking or eating processed foods. No one ever just "hangs out". Im talking no phones, nothing which puts a layer between you and the other person. You'll notice this is uncomfortable. The thought of this probably makes you conjure images of potential awkwardness. Silences or unnoticed cues. Although, eventually it won't. Just like a tender wound, you must let your consciousness become used to the temperature of reality. It takes some time because capatalist society has systemically imposed consumerism well. 
Its an incomparible profound feeling when you begin realising life is actually pretty good. It isn't always. I'm saying that when you get opportunity to enjoy life. Try enjoying it in a way that takes effort. Like reading. Something which furthers understanding and ability. Doing this regularly will detox you from consumerism. It enriches the quality of your life to such a degree that you feel a joy you'd thought you lost. A joy which is originally experienced as a child. The ability to "play" and live in the moment. This are one of the things you hear often repeated by monks, Taoists and hippies. But they've got something right - almost. You don't have to give up everything and not have any fun. Buddah himself recognised this as too extreme. What is required though is to warm yourself up to discomfort again. Of course though I'm taking of extremism. This is another pitfall so close to the right path it vicariously aches me. Makes me recall Plato's cave allegory. An apt assessment in the dissemination of wisdom. Even if it is only I who ever reads this, I must prevent myself from taking this way of living too far. It is just as important to do something you choose to be relaxing, as long as you introduce some way that it is helping you in the future. Make time your bitch.

The consumption culture of today's society chemically and psychologically castrated me. I became impotent and required pills to be able to sex with a woman whom I just met. Comfort and familiarity with each other's bodies would cause this effect to subside but this caused a great deal of anxiety for me. I was constantly careful not to get myself into a spontaneous sexual escapade. I had to invent situations where I was in control and knew when the sex would occur and be prepared. As we all know, prepared sex is not sexy. The kind of sex where you're ripping off your clothes in a hurried attempt to finally get together is the kind that creates romantic attractions through that raw bonding of two souls. I became this way through consumption culture. I essentially desensitised myself to a degree that a naked woman handcrafted my the Creator themself could stand bare before me and my phallus wouldn't say a peep. What a dire time. This was caused by my constant self-gratification with the vastness of today's porn industry, heightened by my smoking habits (both vaping and weed) creating any experience less than that I could do myself one that wasn't worth having. Also, my unfitness usually meant that even if I was able to thumb in a softie and get things going, that I was out of breath almost before things even began. This no soil to cultivate any kind of captivating romance. Things had to change and I'm glad they have.