---
date: 2024-04-09
tags:
  - essay
topics:
  - "[[exercise]]"
  - "[[Vaping]]"
themes: 
complete: true
---

Summary::


First before I talk about exercise and it's uses and methodology, I need to discuss vaping. Specifically, nicotine vapes. Nicotine vapes are unique because it is socially acceptable and done often anywhere inside a house, car or even (secretly) in clubs. You have constant access to it and it can be puffed on to the hearts desire. Constantly gratifying, to the point where you don't even get any feeling from it. You just puff and hope you get an "equalisation". Its only ever if you miss out for a day that you even get a slight dopamine rush. So my point being, vaping as a habit sucks. Costs your bank account (for me $60 per week), your health and, in my experience, your general happiness. After quitting vapes for a few weeks I noticed a very unusual and not often reported effect. I was experiencing significant and unusual mood swings. I would often within a 10 minute period feel on top of the world happy, and then ready to start crying. Not even out of sadness sometimes, sometimes out of happiness or nostalgia. I also noticed my thoughts were less foggy. To compare the states, id say if you could imagine your inner voice as a loud speaker, mine was underwater the whole time. I could barely make out what I was thinking as the thoughts would arrive jumbled and smudged like words on a foggy glass window. Quitting vaping is one of the best things I ever did. Whenever I get tempted (and yes I still do), I just imagine it is a dopamine comedown inducer. I think to myself, "if you hit that, you're gonna have a come down, and it won't even be worth it". 

One other noteworthy effect, quitting vaping made me enjoy the gym. I started after I'd lost a comfortable amount of weight from dieting and felt like I could walk around and feel normal. My vain attempts to start the gym in the past always left me hating the experience. I'd go, feel exhausted and out of breath the whole time, hating every minute and rep of it. Eventually I'd just quit again and again. The difference now is, when I go it feels great the whole time. The not vaping no doubt has helped but interestingly so has my recent perception change. I no longer view the gym as a chore ritual where I have to fulfill a certain amount of reps or sets or weight otherwise I'm inadequate. Instead, I go in with the mindset of just making sure I lift weights until I can't. I use all the structure of my workout and recommended Sets and reps as guidelines. I take my time and walk around on rest times to prevent boredom. I use the time to find good music, often progressive house. This change of perception of the gym to something that can enjoyed and is just to further my already developing physic, exaggerates the experience.

Fitness in body promotes completely in mind and soul

Self respect is important. Your surroundings are constantly a reminder and a reflection of what you think of yourself. I'm not saying some of this can be altered by perspective because this is a truism. Of course perspective is something in your control (as discussed by famous philosopher, Alan Watts). But, through your actions in the present you can endure discomfort and begin seeing improvements. This is why exercising and not vaping is also important. It tells your body, which affects how you look, how much self respect you have. Having a clean car, tells people you respect the things you own and yourself. These are all actions that bring about a change to your environment and body and it immediately tells people: you can do the hard shit. The uncomfortable and avoided. Everyone in this shared experience knows it's not easy to do that. It is proof of a mastery of time. Humanity's true and oldest enemy. When we factorise most philosophical issues, the authority on the problems is often time. Time is the one thing that we have not figured out. Those who do are the ones who rise up in life. The ones who take charge and are capable. There is an understanding and grittiness to those who use their reasoning mind to make conscious choices for how they spend their time. Those who consciously decide how to spend their time by using their reasoning mind. Allowing for no time spent to be a "with the flow" choice, you are constantly fixated on the present. This, like I've said in inherited suffering, will not stop the discomforts of life. But, it'll make your surroundings better. The discomforts also get easier to bear. The good times become even more good. It is totally worth it, I promise. Since you've been given this consciousness, you may as well grab it with both hands and say:

 "I see you".