---
date: 2024-04-09
tags:
  - essay
topics:
  - "[[happiness]]"
  - "[[Philosophy]]"
themes: 
complete: true
---

Summary:: Some ways I try and go about being happy when I'm in a rut. Always return to these basics.

# 1. Expose yourself to discomfort
Optimally you are exposing yourself to increasingly small amounts of discomfort constantly. Doing so will prevent you becoming used to being constantly in a state of comfort. There is significant and not insubstantial boredom from not attempting any activity which requires discomfort for an amount of time. Living this way, sort of tenderises your perception. You become inconvenienced by the slightest surprises. How could you not be surprised and by it, discomforted when you are rarely exposed to the vast positives and negatives that make up our diametric world. After all, nothing remotely interesting has ever been easily obtained. It is the difficulty to obtain something in this world that can give its value. At least that is how humans have been wired to think, an exploit which is often used by capitalists. Live by a maxim as an experiment of the pursuit of a happy existence, trt relying on yourself to do the right thing by you. Structure your life that you can gain this trust within yourself. Do the right thing for you, that you could do, all the time. Doing so promotes a happiness so overwhelming that it can be shared and enjoyed with others. 
# 2. Give up instant gratification
The first and not easily insurmountable step is to give up any instant gratification vices one might possess. The world of today provides a constant state of relaxation, instant gratification and pleasure. This generates a sort of fog which makes any manifest and material form of happiness indistinguishable from its counterparts. The effect of this anecdotally is to feel a sense of "okay-ish-ness" all the time. Never feeling quite content nor absolutely irreparably desolate. This state is what I imagine any existence of a soul that contains a nirvana would be attempting to escape by this reality. It is the hard earned rewards in this life that bring about the greatest satisfaction and it all starts from a building of tolerance to the uncomfortable. So put down the vape, the phone or the VR and begin experiencing the discomforts and often awkward moments of life without the mesh of pleasures between you and it. Experience life in its rarest form. 
# 3. Control what you consume
From here, I recommend gaining control of your other consumptions. What you put into your body is indicative internally and externally of your self-respect. Without self-respect you can't be expectant of others to respect you. Especially those who have not given thought to any kantonian virtues and in the presence of a more Nihilistic, late stage capitalism society. The first way to gain this self-respect is to be in control of what you put into your mouth hole. Start small by missing the least inconvenient (but not least uncomfortable) meal for the day. Making it down to just 2 meals. I recommend doing breakfast. Despite there being initial discomfort to those like me with overdeveloped stomach acid production, pushing through this discomfort does not take long. One thing to constantly remind yourself is that the only time you can do anything is right now. If you live a life of always doing the right thing now, how long will it take before it stops sucking around you and starts being great? Is your concern that it'll be uncomfortable forever? Or that you'll be do busy working to be better to enjoy being better? These fears may be motivating factors but for experiment sake, try doing it. With adequately controlled portion sizes, you'll be able to lose weight without even exercising. Let this settle in your tolerance of discomfort over a few weeks. This'll allow you to grow used to eating for the right reasons. We've been taught in our capitalist society that consumption is a good thing. Well of course it is but for whom? Those who know better and are able to make those well informed better choices or who already live a life of doing the right thing, right now? In that lesson of consumption, we have forgotten the purpose for which we should be eating most of the time: to be nourished. That is not to say while out with friends we should not enjoy the pleasant varieties of life. It's saying that primarily we should look to food as a means of nourishing our bodies to further our health. Not for fulfilling a craving of extreme richness in flavours. These kinds of desires are those who have succumb to these societal norms borne of extreme regulation, structure and oligarchy. The only way to rebel this Orwellian instilled desire is to ease off it like you would any other narcotic. Which is the reason for the slowness in introduction of discomfort (a truth recognised by buddah).  
# 4. Introduce gym after diet
After seeing the scales decline each week (1kg a week or you're still eating too much or not natural enough) and you start to imagine yourself as a leaner and better version of yourself, begin contemplating strength training. Do this as a meditation of knowing you're doing something right and be there in that moment. It becomes freeing, despite its discomforts. After a few weeks, you'll begin to feel a sense of pride in yourself. A fulfilment in knowing the lengths you'd go to for yourself and what discomforts you can bear. This division of having pleasantness diffused into your surroundings and discomforts creates a more satisfying happiness that feels more real. You'll look back on your days prior and feel a sense of bewilderment at how you could've allowed yourself to be in such disrepair. How could you disregard an easily fulfilled duty in this day and age? 

# 5. Be interested in philosophy and life and questioning ways of living and reasoning
Read and study. We live in ages where one of its many and often (overlooked by those secummbed) benefits are infinite access to all knowledge from hundreds of years of experience and thought in languages all over the world. This vastness allows for anyone to reasonably (and I think should be dutifully) to study any topic that they may find interest. I suggest even the slightest interest should be entertained with a closer inspection through consumption mediums of choice. This is another way to silently rebel from the doomed trend coveted by today's age. I also suggest a study of philosophy and reason. To do so will arm oneself with the tools and the humility to understand and reflect from all perspectives. This grandure in understanding elevates existence beyond the menial and still appreciates the comedic irony of it all. It is an expression of classic Albert Camus absurdism. Turning what the shared experience of today's unique living circumstances are into an asset to be exploited in favour of the common good of shared appreciation and satisfaction in one's existence. The development of character this way in conjunction with the self respect meditations will promote shared glee among peers. Question the reasoning of others and contribute to the promotion of asking the right questions. That is the philsosophy on this channel.
# 6. Be down for deep chats and small talk. Promote conversing as much as possible 
Become quizzically and persistently interested in people. Promote small talk with strangers and work colleagues. Better yet, exploit another one of today's ploys for market through target advertising by using social media purely as a form of connection. Reach out and constantly organise weekend events which involve shared experiences. However that may look best to certain groups. This sharing and enjoying with others is truly and innately appreciated in a state where one feels a sense of self respect and understanding. Introverted and shut-in people have become such an epidemic in a world that has promoted an excessive consumption of the connection we have through screens. 
# 7. Introverts are unfortunate products of "The Capital's Beast"
Those who live in a state of feeding The Capital's beast will know that there is no light other than the one which hopes that it can keep its prey distracted by its shiny lights and flashing colours. They do not know that introvertedness is not something that is inherit in an archetype but something acquired from abuse of society's structure. We can not begin to enjoy seeing the light shine in someone else until we can be sure that it is first shining in ourselves. That which can light another needs first the flame to burn somewhere else. This is the next step to happiness and again it requires the experiment of being further uncomfortable for a while. 

The best way to control a society and say farewell to substantial democracy in secret is to subvert desires to critically think or reason. An act which current governmental norms have succeeded well. By stringent regulations and business focussed states, we have created a post-modern fuedlism surrounded and separated by skyscrapers and homelessness. The time for revolution cannot be long now you'd think. But it'll only turn if we don't fall for their clever switches and devices.
# 8. Why be good and why live to make the future better? 
It goes to question with all this talk about doing the right thing for oneself that we need to know what is right?