---
date: 2024-04-09
tags:
  - essay
topics:
  - "[[Diet|Diet]]"
themes: 
complete: true
---

Summary::
I'm not even hungry anymore. I woke up this morning, my body aching from the workouts at 7am. I went to bed early last night (which is a good way to prevent late night snacking). It is now 10:30 and I haven't eaten. I've had a tea this morning and that's it. Normally I'd feel neasea which I'm told online means I've got overproduction of stomach acid in anticipation of regular meal times. My body has adjusted to 2 meals a day. I feel super light and energetic. No neasea. I'm contently full at lunch having a low cal wrap, cheese, some protein and maybe a drizzle of sauce - and finally toasted. So easy and satisfying. For lunch at work I'd provably have sashimi (raw fish). I'm having 2 scoops of protein shake each day with water. I've been seeing fairly consistent weight loss. I've lost 5kgs already and have plautued. I suspect I'll see significant weight loss this week. 

As difficult as this all sounds to experience, it's nice living life on challenging mode. It's very easy for me to smoke all the time, vape all the time, bong, wank, drink every night of the weekend (often a whole bottle) and I'll be totally emotionally numbed out most of the time. However this is no way to live. Even in my haze of ignorant bliss I know that it's not an interesting way to live. You may as well be dead because you're experiencing a unilateral version of life. The universe in its grandure could be argued to simply the introduction of diametricism. The ability to be a yes or a no, an on or an off. But the beauty in that simple gesture is that it creates the ability for there to be a happy from sad. A comfortable from an uncomfortable. I can tell you now, experiencing a bit of both, some of the time, brings out the best result. Uncomfortable doesn't feel as bad as it used to most of the time. Being comfortable feels better than it did when that's all you let yourself feel. Dieting is, in my opinion, the first and best way to introduce discomfort to your life. It doesn't take long to suck less and if you do it right, doesn't take long for it to show results. It makes eating out a luxury experience. It makes getting drunk cheaper when you do drink on ocassion. You feel more confident and have more respect of yourself. It makes you believe you could enter social interactions of the kind you'd only imagine yourself doing. I think the Secret Life of Walter Mitty is a good representation of what its like to gain self respect through the scary and uncomfortable. Walter Mitty is a man who lives a life in his head, one he wishes he could live. But it is not the life he actually lives. Walter through random chance, is forced out of his comfort zone when he has to find a photographer traveller. By travelling himself, across the world. Over this time, Walter lives in his head less because the ups and downs and absurdity of this life is engaging enough to keep his consciousness entertained. Which leads me to believe that if there is an after life in all this, surely the means by which to escape the dullness of an infinite conscience bliss would be to willing accept a reality such as this one. One which brings out the value in good times by the introduction and possibility of bad times. The introducing of uncertainty.

Removing processed foods is a big thing. We know already medically and scientifically that this boosts your energy and mood. However, even if you don't prescribe complete trust in scientific reporting, take an anecdotal evidence from me. Personally, the perceived energy levels and mood difference is phenomenal. Regardless of whether there is a physical truth to cause the boost or if it's some form of placebo, it does not detract from the experience. Having these better moods and energy levels also makes it easier to do the things you normally couldn't be bothered doing. Cleaning your room, your car, the gym. These tasks take effort and nothing makes a tedious task harder than fatigue. Especially the fog-like haze that is caused by the processed food industry. 

Sleep no doubt helps this. I've been sleeping now as soon as I can at night. Often at 9pm. I used to not like going to bed early so that I could continue to consume more TV and video games to "catch up" on what I could've done had it not been for work. What a fucked up mindset this is. The idea that you need to consume a certain amount of content per day to gain a satisfaction threshold. Once I gave up this mind set, things all fell into place. I could go to bed early, wake up early and go to the gym at optimal rest amounts. Eating healthy and going to the gym has improved my quality and enjoyment of life so much so that it doesn't matter what I'm doing, whether it's work or relaxation. Now I feel content all the time. Not to say that this will always be the case, no doubt there will be hiccups and hazards in the road that is life but I feel much better equipped to face these challenges knowing I'm capable of experiencing hardship and coming out the othwrside better for it.