---
date: 2024-04-09
tags:
  - essay
topics:
  - "[[stoicism|stoicism]]"
  - "[[Philosophy|Philosophy]]"
themes: 
complete: true
---

Summary::
Stoicism doesn't teach us not to have thoughts it teaches us how to question them. This often leads to better identification with one's feelings while reminding oneself not to be overwhelmed by them. To be tempered by your thoughts and not broken. Being able to identify emotions leads to better ability at expressing them. Being able to express one's emotions allows them to be able to cope with them and to ask for advice. 

Consider visualisation of the most horrible things you can within your mind ocassionally. Allow yourself to be exposed and to think how you will resist the urge to breakdown internally. Consider how you will govern your will to resist and have fortitude in a situation as dire as this conjuration of the mind. What mantras will you chant? Amor fati. Love one's fate. In this absurd life where nothing appears to have meaning and there is no obvious reason. Anyone who claims to know absolutely is niaave. I think therein lies the true point. The point is to be capable of not knowing. Embrace it. But don't be consumed by it. Having a simulated strength doesn't necessarily transfer to the real world with complete efficiency. But cumulatively, there is chance that this makes things easier because I can attest it does for me. I am saying this to appeal to the possibility that this is a shared experience. I can neither confirm or deny that everyone's will is made of the same material as each other as there is no way to confirm this. All I'm saying is you'll never know unless you try.

Question why you feeling why you feel. Is it for a good reason? Why is it not for a good reason. Truly flesh it out. Analysing this can cause you to come back to homeostasis within the soul. And at the very least, when you can answer why you must endure something, for what reason you are enduring it, you can withstand it.

Kant questioned reason because he recognised the faculty to be able to think about the products of the thinker. Reason is an output of reports generated by the thinking machine. Justification is what our mind does best, or at least one of the things. But questioning these justifications, is where things get interesting. Requesting a justification or a justification may seem absurd but I promise it causes corrections to be made. It's as if the machine becomes more well oiled. The factory producing the justifications works more effectively and efficiently. It knows that poor justification and conclusions and impressions will not go unseen. All work will be supervised internally. You tell your brain how to think. The you that's not your brain. The "brain" within your brain. 

Wake up early at least 5 out of the 7 nights in a week by choice. Doing so well allow you to go to the gym early and workout. It will stop you resenting work for causing you to get up early. You have chosen it. You choose it to build your body which in turn is able to better carry out the actions of your mind. Your body will serve as a constant reminder to others of the dedication you are willing to possess. The faculties you have at your disposal. The message they will receive is that you're capable of doing the hard work. No matter what context it is, that is admirable because it is a universally applicable skill. If you can do the hard work, you're already ahead of those who can't (better phrased, won't).

Treat everybody the same regardless of gender. Gender should not be a barrier in your mind. Especially not whichever gender appeals to you best. You should be able to maintain a friendship with the gender you're attracted. A somewhat troubling and toxic trend resurfacing in society, or perhaps lingering from the dark ages of gender toxicity of the early 20th century, is that there is an ill conceived belief that men and women cannot be friends. Often the reasoning of this when questioned is answered with what ifs on the nature and "true" sexual intentions hiding behind the facade and sham of bona fide friendship. What a dire way to think! I'm of course speaking from the perspective of a heterosexual man but I cannot dismiss that perhaps this phenomenon is prevalent in other communities of the sexual spectrum. Why is this happening? For years humanity has tried to fetishise sex. By that I mean make it taboo, forbidden, disgusting or uncouth. It is such a curious outcome of society. One I suspect could have dark connotations if inspected. From this it makes sense the sudden aversion from sex altogether from those who identify as asexual. Not to say that may be the only reasoning but not