---  
date: 2024-07-24  
tags:  
  - idea  
complete: true  
topics:   
themes:   
---  
An app which you point to a book and incrementally it sends you and a list of recipients an email and it sends you a paragraph or page off the book so you can both study at the same pace. Can use methods such as ai to generate some questions to answer, and other to integrate active learning. Also would create structure in learning which would aid deep studies of complicated works - Nietzsche or kant, for example.   
  
# workflow  
Workflow would be:  
1. You upload a book in epub or pdf format to an app;  
2. The app uses a pdf or epub reading module to select a certain amount of text based on user preference;  
3. It generates an email sent to a list of recipients. The email has:   
	1. an extract of the book;  
	2. Questions about the text to reinforce the learning; and  
	3. markdown format to allow copy and pasting into a markdown editor, which also provides a template answer model.  
4. The app would send this once ever defined time period and increment through the book. This could also allow giving an eta on how long the book will take to finish.  
  
# benefits and future features  
- This could help in studying multiple books at once with multiple people.  
- could integrate multiple active learning / deliberate practice techniques:  
	- flash cards generated by ai  
	- ai analysis of our responses to the text and see what we're missing  
	- cross referencing between our work to compare thoughts  
- Having a structured way of reading and an estimate each week on how long it'll take to finish the book will provide goals to work towards. And the automation of it all will be low friction enough to make the system automatic.